README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: Installs Apache Tomcat Java Application server (optionally with Hugepages)

Installs Apache Tomcat Java Application server. Most complete Tomcat installation, supporting, init.d script, application naming, hugepages, hardening, beautiful error pages, sha512 hashed passwords, JMX configuration, multiple Tomcat versions, separated catalina_home and caralina_base.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat)

## Table of Contents

1. [Requirements][Requirements]
2. [Installation][Installation]
3. [Role Variables][Role Variables]
4. [Dependencies][Dependencies]
5. [Example Playbook][Example Playbook]
6. [Licensing][Licensing]
7. [Author Information][Author Information]
8. [Support][Support]
9. [Contributing][Contributing]
10. [Donation][Donation]

## Requirements

None.

## Installation

    ansible-galaxy install kami911.tomcat

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    tomcat_majorversion: 8

Tomcat major version.

    tomcat_minorversion: 5

Tomcat minor version.

    tomcat_patchversion: 4

Tomcat micro version.

    tomcat_use_huge_pages: True

Use Huge Pages (Java calls it: UseLargePages) for enhance performance of Java applications. When a process uses some memory, the CPU is marking the RAM as used by that process. For efficiency, the CPU allocate RAM by chunks of 4K bytes (it's the default value on many platforms). Those chunks are named pages. Those pages can be swapped to disk, etc.

Since the process address space are virtual, the CPU and the operating system have to remember which page belong to which process, and where it is stored. Obviously, the more pages you have, the more time it takes to find where the memory is mapped. When a process uses 1GB of memory, that's 262144 entries to look up (1GB / 4K). If one Page Table Entry consume 8bytes, that's 2MB (262144 * 8) to look-up.

[Debian Wiki: Hugepages](https://wiki.debian.org/Hugepages)

When you enable it use [KAMI911:hugepages](https://galaxy.ansible.com/KAMI911/hugepages/) to configure Huge Pages in Linux.

    tomcat_file_encoding: UTF-8

Tomcat file encoding parameter: UTF-8

    tomcat_page_encoding: UTF-8

Tomcat page encoding parameter: UTF-8

    tomcat_use_secure_flag: True

Set this attribute to True if you wish to have calls to request.isSecure() to return true for requests received by this Connector. You would want this on an SSL Connector or a non SSL connector that is receiving data from a SSL accelerator, like a crypto card, a SSL appliance or even a webserver. The default value is False.

    tomcat_session_http_only: True

Forcing Tomcat to use JSESSIONID cookie over only http.

    tomcat_session_secure: True

Forcing Tomcat to use secure JSESSIONID cookie.

    tomcat_manage_java_pkg: False

Tomcat manage java installation an install OpenJDK or not.

    tomcat_system_name: "tomcat_app_sys"

Optional: Use this folder name for this tomcat instance.

    tomcat_service_enabled: true

Enable or disable tomcat service on system startup.

    tomcat_system_home: "{{ tomcat_base_folder }}/{{ tomcat_system_user }}"

Folder of Tomcat binaries.

    # tomcat_system_home: "{{ tomcat_base_folder }}/{{ tomcat_system_name }}" # This is an optional setting to use tomcat_system_name for this system.

Folder of Tomcat binaries using tomcat_system_home variable.

    tomcat_catalina_home: "{{ tomcat_system_home }}/tomcat"

Tomcat Cataline home folder.

    tomcat_catalina_base: "{{ tomcat_catalina_home }}"

Tomcat Catalina base folder.

    tomcat_manage_firewalld: true

Role manages the firewalld settings of required ports.

    tomcat_manage_firewalld_use_zone: true

Tomcat firewalld uses zones (default) or use source addresses.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
      roles:
        - tomcat

## Licensing

The lactransformer application and documantations are licensed under the terms of
the MIT / BSD, you will find a copy of this license in the
[LICENSE](LICENSE) file included in the source package.

## Author Information

This role was created in 2016-2018 by Kálmán Szalai - KAMI

## Support

If you have any question, do not hesitate and drop me a line.
If you found a bug, or have a feature request, you can [fill an issue](https://github.com/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat/issues).

## Contributing

There are many ways to contribute to ansible-role-tomcat -- whether it be sending patches,
testing, reporting bugs, or reviewing and updating the documentation. Every
contribution is appreciated!

Please continue reading in the [contributing chapter](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Fork me on Github

https://github.com/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat

Add a new remote `upstream` with this repository as value.

```
git remote add upstream https://github.com/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat.git
```

You can pull updates to your fork's master branch:

```
git fetch --all
git pull upstream HEAD
```

## Donation

If you find this useful, please consider a donation:

[![paypal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=RLQZ58B26XSLA)

<!-- TOC URLs -->
[Requirements]: #requirements
[Installation]: #installation
[Role Variables]: #role_variables
[Dependencies]: #dependencies
[Example Playbook]: #example_playbook
[Licensing]: #licensing
[Author Information]: #author_information
[Support]: #support
[Contributing]: #contributing
[Donation]: #donation

Commit message:

Rename variable: java_version to tomcat_java_version
* Increase tomcat_java_version to 11.
* Rename variable from java_version to tomcat_java_version.
* Configure Tomcat to use the specified version version of Java.

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: Installs Apache Tomcat Java Application server (optionally with Hugepages)

Installs Apache Tomcat Java Application server. Most complete Tomcat installation, supporting, init.d script, application naming, hugepages, hardening, beautiful error pages, sha512 hashed passwords, JMX configuration, multiple Tomcat versions, separated catalina_home and caralina_base.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat)

## Table of Contents

1. [Requirements][Requirements]
2. [Installation][Installation]
3. [Role Variables][Role Variables]
4. [Dependencies][Dependencies]
5. [Example Playbook][Example Playbook]
6. [Licensing][Licensing]
7. [Author Information][Author Information]
8. [Support][Support]
9. [Contributing][Contributing]
10. [Donation][Donation]

## Requirements

None.

## Installation

    ansible-galaxy install kami911.tomcat

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    tomcat_majorversion: 8

Tomcat major version.

    tomcat_minorversion: 5

Tomcat minor version.

    tomcat_patchversion: 4

Tomcat micro version.

    tomcat_use_huge_pages: True

Use Huge Pages (Java calls it: UseLargePages) for enhance performance of Java applications. When a process uses some memory, the CPU is marking the RAM as used by that process. For efficiency, the CPU allocate RAM by chunks of 4K bytes (it's the default value on many platforms). Those chunks are named pages. Those pages can be swapped to disk, etc.

Since the process address space are virtual, the CPU and the operating system have to remember which page belong to which process, and where it is stored. Obviously, the more pages you have, the more time it takes to find where the memory is mapped. When a process uses 1GB of memory, that's 262144 entries to look up (1GB / 4K). If one Page Table Entry consume 8bytes, that's 2MB (262144 * 8) to look-up.

[Debian Wiki: Hugepages](https://wiki.debian.org/Hugepages)

When you enable it use [KAMI911:hugepages](https://galaxy.ansible.com/KAMI911/hugepages/) to configure Huge Pages in Linux.

    tomcat_file_encoding: UTF-8

Tomcat file encoding parameter: UTF-8

    tomcat_page_encoding: UTF-8

Tomcat page encoding parameter: UTF-8

    tomcat_use_secure_flag: True

Set this attribute to True if you wish to have calls to request.isSecure() to return true for requests received by this Connector. You would want this on an SSL Connector or a non SSL connector that is receiving data from a SSL accelerator, like a crypto card, a SSL appliance or even a webserver. The default value is False.

    tomcat_session_http_only: True

Forcing Tomcat to use JSESSIONID cookie over only http.

    tomcat_session_secure: True

Forcing Tomcat to use secure JSESSIONID cookie.

    tomcat_manage_java_pkg: False

Tomcat manage java installation an install OpenJDK or not.

    tomcat_system_name: "tomcat_app_sys"

Optional: Use this folder name for this tomcat instance.

    tomcat_service_enabled: true

Enable or disable tomcat service on system startup.

    tomcat_system_home: "{{ tomcat_base_folder }}/{{ tomcat_system_user }}"

Folder of Tomcat binaries.

    # tomcat_system_home: "{{ tomcat_base_folder }}/{{ tomcat_system_name }}" # This is an optional setting to use tomcat_system_name for this system.

Folder of Tomcat binaries using tomcat_system_home variable.

    tomcat_catalina_home: "{{ tomcat_system_home }}/tomcat"

Tomcat Cataline home folder.

    tomcat_catalina_base: "{{ tomcat_catalina_home }}"

Tomcat Catalina base folder.

    tomcat_manage_firewalld: true

Role manages the firewalld settings of required ports.

    tomcat_manage_firewalld_use_zone: true

Tomcat firewalld uses zones (default) or use source addresses.

    tomcat_java_version: 11

Configure Tomcat to use the specified version version of Java.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
      roles:
        - tomcat

## Licensing

The lactransformer application and documantations are licensed under the terms of
the MIT / BSD, you will find a copy of this license in the
[LICENSE](LICENSE) file included in the source package.

## Author Information

This role was created in 2016-2018 by Kálmán Szalai - KAMI

## Support

If you have any question, do not hesitate and drop me a line.
If you found a bug, or have a feature request, you can [fill an issue](https://github.com/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat/issues).

## Contributing

There are many ways to contribute to ansible-role-tomcat -- whether it be sending patches,
testing, reporting bugs, or reviewing and updating the documentation. Every
contribution is appreciated!

Please continue reading in the [contributing chapter](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Fork me on Github

https://github.com/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat

Add a new remote `upstream` with this repository as value.

```
git remote add upstream https://github.com/KAMI911/ansible-role-tomcat.git
```

You can pull updates to your fork's master branch:

```
git fetch --all
git pull upstream HEAD
```

## Donation

If you find this useful, please consider a donation:

[![paypal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=RLQZ58B26XSLA)

<!-- TOC URLs -->
[Requirements]: #requirements
[Installation]: #installation
[Role Variables]: #role_variables
[Dependencies]: #dependencies
[Example Playbook]: #example_playbook
[Licensing]: #licensing
[Author Information]: #author_information
[Support]: #support
[Contributing]: #contributing
[Donation]: #donation
